Design vs Implementation

Design

This section should provide a high-level overview of the “architecture” of
the system but without any code-level details. 

It should describe the major components of the system, the role that each plays and the interrelationships
between them.

 It should also describe any tools, technologies or packages or
libraries that your system depends upon and describe how they fit into the
overall design. 

Every significant high-level technical decision reflected in the
design should be justified: the reader should be convinced that the proposed
design is both reasonable and realizable.


In the case of a investigative project, say to develop an algorithm, this
section should present the algorithm itself and illustrate of its operation
perhaps by means of an example or two. Technical details such as proofs of
correctness and performance analysis should appear in the Implementation
section.


Implementation

This section should describe the actual implementation but with a focus on
the technical challenges rather than the mundane coding details. There no
need to describe straightforward aspects in great detail or to quote large
blocks of code, but any non-obvious aspects of the implementation should
be explained. For example, a brief summary of the main data structures
employed might be included and the role that each plays in the overall scheme
of things.


The objective is that a competent programmer should be able to understand how the software was constructed based only on your description of it.

Do not give a blow by blow narrative account of your coding efforts, but it
is appropriate to indicate any significant or unexpected technical challenges
encountered along the way (flaky behaviour of third-party software, misleading or inadequate documentation and so on) and how they were resolved or overcome.

Where the implementation is incomplete, you should state clearly what
has and has not been done. It is appropriate to sketch how uncompleted
elements of the the system might be implemented, as long as you are honest
in describing the status of uncompleted work.
